[Unknown]: IVM.
[Amit Varma]: Before we move on with this episode of the scene in the unseen,
[Amit Varma]: do check out another awesome podcast from IVM podcast,
[Amit Varma]: Cyrus Says, hosted by my old buddy, Cyrus Brocha.
[Amit Varma]: I was a professional poker player for a few years,
[Amit Varma]: and even though I was a winning player,
[Amit Varma]: one of the many reasons I left poker was that I felt I was engaged
[Amit Varma]: in an unproductive activity that contributed nothing to the world.
[Amit Varma]: Poker is a zero sum game,
[Amit Varma]: even a negative sum game if one considers a rate charged by the house.
[Amit Varma]: And the only way a person can win is if someone else loses.
[Amit Varma]: Basically, you have to exploit the mistakes of others.
[Amit Varma]: The real world is not like this.
[Amit Varma]: In everything else I do, whether it's writing or podcasting
[Amit Varma]: or producing journalism, I only make money if I provide value to others.
[Amit Varma]: When I benefit, so do others.
[Amit Varma]: It's a positive sum game.
[Amit Varma]: No wonder then that gamblers are looked upon with suspicion by non gamblers.
[Amit Varma]: Not that there's anything morally wrong with gambling,
[Amit Varma]: for even the losers are consenting adults.
[Amit Varma]: But it's true that a poker player doesn't make the world a better place
[Amit Varma]: by playing poker.
[Amit Varma]: Now, there are many things in common with the world of gambling
[Amit Varma]: in the world of finance,
[Amit Varma]: and many people view finance professionals in the same way,
[Amit Varma]: as if they are just gamblers in a giant casino, creating nothing of value
[Amit Varma]: and often bringing the rest of the world crashing down,
[Amit Varma]: such as when there's a financial crisis.
[Amit Varma]: And yet, this could not be further from the truth.
[Unknown]: Welcome to the scene and the unseen.
[Unknown]: Our weekly podcast on economics, politics and behavioral science.
[Unknown]: Please welcome your host, Amit Badma.
[Amit Varma]: Welcome to the scene and the unseen.
[Amit Varma]: My subject today is the importance of finance,
[Amit Varma]: a field that is often misunderstood and misrepresented.
[Amit Varma]: My guest is one of the thinkers I admire most in India,
[Amit Varma]: though I often disagree with him as well, Ajay Shah.
[Amit Varma]: Ajay was my guest in a previous episode a few weeks ago,
[Amit Varma]: talking about creative destruction.
[Amit Varma]: And I hope to make him a regular guest on the scene and the unseen.
[Amit Varma]: Before we cut to this conversation, though, let's take a quick emotional break.
[Amit Varma]: This episode of the scene and the unseen is brought to you by Storytel.
[Amit Varma]: Storytel is an audio book platform which you can listen to on your Android or iOS app.
[Amit Varma]: They have thousands of audio books that you can listen to on your mobile,
[Amit Varma]: including hundreds in local languages like Hindi and Marathi
[Amit Varma]: and unlimited monthly subscription costs only rupees 2.99 per month.
[Amit Varma]: And you can also get a 30 day free trial if you hop on over to Storytel.com slash IBM.
[Amit Varma]: I actually use Storytel myself regularly.
[Amit Varma]: So as long as they sponsor the show, I'm going to recommend one book a week that I love.
[Amit Varma]: The book I want to recommend today is Born Standing Up by Steve Martin.
[Amit Varma]: I haven't actually read it, but my producer Abbas Momin says it's a beautiful,
[Amit Varma]: moving autobiography and I intend to listen to it now that I've found it's on Storytel.
[Amit Varma]: You do the same.
[Amit Varma]: And remember, you get a 30 day free trial only at Storytel.com slash IBM.
[Amit Varma]: Ajay, welcome back to the scene and the unseen.
[Guest]: My pleasure to be here.
[Amit Varma]: So, Ajay, you're a big fan of the world of finance and the world of finance is,
[Amit Varma]: according to one kind of popular notion, a world full of villains where nothing productive is produced.
[Amit Varma]: And it's like a giant casino where you have hot shot bankers playing with the real lives of people
[Amit Varma]: who have no control over what's going on.
[Amit Varma]: Does finance deserve this kind of a bed wrap?
[Guest]: My claim would be that finance is the best example of the seen and the unseen.
[Guest]: That the grand drama playing out in financial markets and financial firms is the ultimate
[Guest]: foundation of all the prosperity and technology and innovation that we see around us today.
[Guest]: That's a grand claim.
[Amit Varma]: So, start breaking it down for me.
[Guest]: OK, so we are used to the world of things.
[Guest]: OK, we have a coffee, we have a cell phone, we buy things from firms and our immediate experiences
[Guest]: are always about those things.
[Guest]: We see the market economy as a world of things and we appreciate and admire and marvel at all the
[Guest]: things that the wonderful market economy produces for us.
[Guest]: My shirt, my pants, all these joys, all these pleasures are given to us by the market economy.
[Guest]: That's the scene.
[Guest]: But now we should go one level deeper and ask, how does all this come about?
[Guest]: Where do the firms come from?
[Guest]: Where do the innovations come from?
[Guest]: Where do the decisions of the firms come from?
[Guest]: And this is where we get to finance.
[Guest]: OK, so it is finance that puts the firms there.
[Guest]: It is finance that tells the firms what to do.
[Guest]: It is finance that creates the incentives for the innovation.
[Guest]: So, my first level idea would be that the scene world is being invisibly controlled and shaped and
[Guest]: influenced every day by the world of finance.
[Guest]: OK, and so let me start with the simplest of all examples.
[Guest]: I want to go back to the 1990s, when somewhere in the late 1990s, people started getting the idea that,
[Guest]: you know, you could build a software services company in India.
[Guest]: This was not a mainstream idea for a long time.
[Guest]: Most people don't remember that in 1994, when Infosys did the IPO, it actually did not succeed so well.
[Guest]: It was not a hot IPO in 1994, as you might imagine today.
[Guest]: It's only by the late 90s that the idea got around that you can actually run a big, successful
[Guest]: software services company in India and make a lot of money.
[Guest]: And where did that idea go off?
[Guest]: It went off in the heads of the finance guys.
[Guest]: What did they do?
[Guest]: They drove up the prices of the shares of the software services companies, the early pioneers like Infosys.
[Guest]: So what that did was it created this publicly visible price, the share price, the valuation, the P.E.
[Guest]: ratio, the price to book ratio of these software services companies was stratospheric.
[Guest]: And all around the country, there were people who started looking at those prices and wondering,
[Guest]: you know what, should I be doing something there?
[Guest]: OK, so I was there and I vividly recollect that the, you know, the people who started looking at those
[Guest]: prices, the financial system was shouting out to everybody in the country that if you put 100 rupees
[Guest]: and build a successful cement company, we will reward you with wealth of 70 rupees.
[Guest]: OK, in other words, don't bother building a cement company, but if you put 100 rupees and succeed in
[Guest]: building a software company, then we'll give you a wealth of 500 rupees.
[Guest]: That's a price to book ratio of five.
[Guest]: And sure enough, there were attentive people all around the country who are watching that drama
[Guest]: playing out in the stock prices.
[Guest]: And so you had literally thousands of people in India who started wondering, could we start a
[Guest]: software company? Do I have a friend who knows how to build software?
[Guest]: Do I have a cousin that knows how to sell software in London or in Sydney and so on?
[Guest]: So all across the country, the thought process started springing up that we should really be
[Guest]: building a software company. And also, we should really not be building a cement company.
[Guest]: All these decisions all across the country were invisibly coordinated by one thing, the stock
[Guest]: market, the valuation of the stock market, reshaped the thought process, the development of
[Guest]: business plans all around the country.
[Amit Varma]: So would it be fair to say that just as in the marketplace of things per se, let's say that I am
[Amit Varma]: someone who can make a widget for 40 rupees, and I see that day in the market, it's selling for 80
[Amit Varma]: rupees, and that's an incentive for me to go in.
[Amit Varma]: So the prices are giving me that information.
[Amit Varma]: So similarly, what you're seeing is that what the stock market tells you what the world of
[Amit Varma]: finance tells you is that software stocks are shooting up, and you're increasing the
[Amit Varma]: incentives for more and more people to get into it.
[Amit Varma]: Is there a danger of reflexivity here in the sense that can you create a vicious cycle where a
[Amit Varma]: bubble forms, which is then inevitably going to come down as a dot-com bubble did?
[Guest]: So now I want to go to the thought process inside the stock market.
[Guest]: And that will give us more insight.
[Guest]: The stock market is not some magical construct.
[Guest]: It's just composed of people.
[Guest]: It's composed of people like you and me.
[Guest]: And the prices at which trades take place reflect the views of people.
[Guest]: So those are smart people.
[Guest]: They are looking at all the available information.
[Amit Varma]: So that's your demand side basically reflecting it.
[Guest]: Wait, I just want to highlight the limitations of the process.
[Guest]: The people who are trading the shares are looking at the world, are commanding information
[Guest]: about the world, are trying to make forecasts about the world, and these forecasts will
[Guest]: necessarily go wrong.
[Guest]: And that's perfectly OK.
[Guest]: The future will always be unknowable.
[Guest]: Some things will go wrong.
[Guest]: So every now and then there will be mistakes.
[Guest]: We should not think about this as some flawless central planning system where decisions will
[Guest]: always be perfect.
[Guest]: So yes, what you call a bubble, I call mistakes.
[Guest]: Mistakes will always happen, that there will be a time when everybody thinks that nanotechnology
[Guest]: is going to work and there will be a rush of investment into nanotechnology firms.
[Guest]: And some years later, people will think, nah, that didn't really work.
[Guest]: We did not really make money in that and there will be money that is wasted.
[Guest]: And that's OK.
[Guest]: That's a part of life.
[Guest]: The point is that the stock market is the place where a lot of smart people come together
[Guest]: and form views about the future and not just write blog articles about those views, but
[Guest]: put their money where their mouth is.
[Guest]: People do trades with real money and do their best in trying to forecast the future.
[Guest]: So there is a remarkable alignment between the personal self-interest of the people trading
[Guest]: the market and the connections between the prices that are produced and the allocation
[Guest]: of resources in society.
[Guest]: So there is self-interest part and then there is a positive externalities part.
[Guest]: These prices create positive externalities.
[Guest]: The whole country benefits because we are able to run a self-organizing system surrounding
[Guest]: those prices.
[Guest]: So everybody knows the price to book of a hospital.
[Guest]: Now, thousands of people all over the country will wonder, should I start a hospital?
[Guest]: Should I not start a hospital?
[Guest]: But doesn't this create a set of two incentives?
[Amit Varma]: For example, earlier, if you're starting a business, your incentive is can I make a profit?
[Amit Varma]: Can I create a product for 40 rupees which somebody will buy for 60 rupees?
[Amit Varma]: So that's my profit.
[Amit Varma]: But now there's another incentive which comes in where this profit in the marketplace of
[Amit Varma]: things doesn't matter.
[Amit Varma]: That, you know, can I have an IPO and am I in the sector which is hot right now, which
[Amit Varma]: could be dot com once upon a time, which could be, say, biotech right now, and it doesn't
[Amit Varma]: matter what the product is and whether it ever makes a profit as long as the stock
[Guest]: market value is high.
[Guest]: Well, in the end, people do want profit.
[Guest]: So I think the financial system has demonstrated the ability to invest for long time periods
[Guest]: in losing propositions.
[Guest]: So in fact, 10 years ago, the criticism or 20 years ago, the criticism would have been
[Guest]: that the short term attention to profit is a mistake.
[Guest]: Well, today we've seen many sectors, most notably clean energy, where the financial
[Guest]: system understood maybe 10 years ago that global warming was a problem and there is
[Guest]: going to need to be gigantic development of technologies and infrastructure around clean
[Guest]: energy.
[Guest]: And the financial system was willing to commit very large resources into these firms, even
[Guest]: though they were presently not making money.
[Guest]: But it was the bet of people in the financial system that, you know, give it time, it's
[Guest]: going to make money in the future.
[Guest]: So the stock price is just the net present value of all the dividends that are going
[Guest]: to come out in the future.
[Guest]: Nobody is here for charity.
[Amit Varma]: In fact, a great example that you gave me when we were chatting about this before of
[Amit Varma]: how a bet by the stock markets actually makes a huge impact in the real world is what happened
[Amit Varma]: in the late 1990s when, you know, optical cabling, for example.
[Guest]: Yeah, so optical communications is a late 90s, early 2000s revolution, which was led
[Guest]: by the financial system.
[Guest]: People understood that there is going to be an explosion of data and we need a whole new
[Guest]: generation of switches and computing capabilities surrounding mind-blowing levels of bandwidth.
[Guest]: And there was a series of startups which got large investment by the venture capitalists.
[Guest]: And it actually worked out well.
[Guest]: And we got that gigantic escalation of capabilities inside many of those engineering
[Guest]: companies.
[Guest]: So the role of the financial system is to look into the future and translate that into
[Guest]: a structure of payoffs for entrepreneurs.
[Guest]: So in our old world of Hayek and the world of things, we would be talking the profit
[Guest]: rate of a company.
[Guest]: We'd be talking about the profit for one year.
[Guest]: What finance does is it takes profits over many years and turns that into a net present
[Guest]: value.
[Guest]: And also it brings the word risk into the equation, which is, of course, important.
[Guest]: So risk and reward come together in finance.
[Guest]: And what finance does ultimately is it creates a structure of incentives for what industries
[Guest]: should expand, what kinds of tools and technologies and products are going to be important in
[Guest]: the future.
[Guest]: And it sends out incentives for firms and managers and entrepreneurs to build those
[Guest]: kinds of capabilities.
[Guest]: And that's the invisible way in which the phrase is used that Wall Street runs Main
[Guest]: Street, that Wall Street figures out these prices and then Main Street responds to those
[Amit Varma]: prices.
[Amit Varma]: And it seems to me that those incentives also work in drawing the best minds to finance
[Amit Varma]: because there is so much money to be made.
[Amit Varma]: The best minds come to finance.
[Amit Varma]: And when they are putting their money where their mouth is, you have to take that seriously.
[Amit Varma]: So in a sense, you have the best minds coming together for good incentives, setting the
[Amit Varma]: agenda for...
[Guest]: So I have mixed feelings on this.
[Guest]: So first, I don't think that there's a shortage of minds.
[Guest]: Okay.
[Guest]: So I think there's a very large supply of wonderful people in the world.
[Guest]: And I don't think that there is a shortage of minds.
[Guest]: Some good minds come into podcasting as well.
[Guest]: Yeah.
[Guest]: So I think that there is a great deal of brilliant and wonderful humans all over the world in
[Guest]: many, many lives and careers and professions.
[Guest]: So some people have a negative view that there's a PhD physics guy who's now trading in a hedge
[Guest]: fund, and that's a bad use for society.
[Guest]: And I don't agree.
[Guest]: I think there's no shortage of talent.
[Guest]: That's one point.
[Guest]: My second point is that, yes, exactly.
[Guest]: As you say, you need to bring in some of the best capabilities into finance because finance
[Guest]: is that important.
[Guest]: I mean, finance has to think about the world, form views about the future and reshape the
[Guest]: world around us.
[Guest]: So we see this most vividly in the high technology space where many a successful engineer and
[Guest]: entrepreneur starts a second life as a venture capitalist.
[Guest]: Okay.
[Guest]: So for example, the great engineer Bill Joy, who was one of the key people in BSD Unix,
[Guest]: one of the founders of Sun Microsystems, then turned into a partner at Kleiner Perkins.
[Guest]: And that's the kind of genius that is applying its mind to thinking about what investments,
[Amit Varma]: what industry.
[Amit Varma]: Like his co-founder at Sunway North Coast Line.
[Guest]: Who is also a venture capitalist.
[Amit Varma]: And you've described finance as the brain of the economy and use venture capitalism.
[Guest]: Joseph Stiglitz says that finance is the brain of the economy.
[Amit Varma]: Right.
[Amit Varma]: So break that down for me.
[Guest]: So all this thinking work is what Joseph Stiglitz calls the brain of the economy.
[Guest]: That it is finance that has to think.
[Guest]: It is finance that awards valuations.
[Guest]: It is finance that is like the commanding heights of the economy, to use a Nehruvian
[Guest]: term, what you would have thought the planning commission would do.
[Guest]: That the planning commission will decide that, you know what, we need to build integrated
[Guest]: circuits.
[Guest]: We need a VLSI fab in India.
[Guest]: We don't need a VLSI fab in India.
[Guest]: These are all the things that are ultimately now controlled by the financial system.
[Guest]: So that is why Joseph Stiglitz calls finance the brain of the economy.
[Guest]: My good friend Josh Feldman tells a very interesting story.
[Guest]: He says that suppose there was an earthquake.
[Guest]: I think you were there when he told this story.
[Guest]: He said, suppose there is an earthquake and the entire Bombay gets destroyed.
[Guest]: Okay.
[Guest]: And suppose we had to pick up the pieces and start over.
[Guest]: What is the first thing that we would do?
[Guest]: Answer.
[Guest]: We would rebuild the financial system.
[Guest]: Because the financial system would then fund everybody else and the rest of Bombay would
[Amit Varma]: get built.
[Amit Varma]: So before you build the schools, build the banks.
[Guest]: Everything will flow from there.
[Guest]: The first thing you got to get in place is the financial system.
[Amit Varma]: And that's sort of a very telling analogy of a planning commission as say something
[Amit Varma]: that's doing central planning, but it's centralized and it cannot possibly have access
[Amit Varma]: to all the information and therefore it invariably messes up.
[Amit Varma]: But this is sort of the brain of the economy, but all the information is decentralized.
[Guest]: It's coming from.
[Guest]: It's a self-organizing brain.
[Amit Varma]: Okay.
[Guest]: So we combine the brain, but yet it's a self-organizing system and there's no compulsion.
[Guest]: There's no coercion.
[Guest]: Okay.
[Guest]: You're welcome.
[Guest]: I'm welcome.
[Guest]: Everybody's free to look at the system of prices and disagree that.
[Guest]: No, I don't agree.
[Guest]: I think aluminum is much more important than you guys think it is.
[Guest]: Very good.
[Guest]: Put your money where your mouth is.
[Guest]: Buy aluminum futures or buy the shares of aluminum companies.
[Amit Varma]: And where does a VC get his signals from?
[Amit Varma]: Where does he get his, what are his incentives?
[Guest]: Where does he get his knowledge from?
[Guest]: By looking at the world.
[Guest]: So the VC's job is supposed to be to look at the world and figure, I think these technologies
[Guest]: are going to be important.
[Guest]: These business models are going to be important.
[Amit Varma]: And the markets are a reflection of that, the stock markets.
[Guest]: So the VC turns around and shapes the projects.
[Guest]: The VC is looking in the future.
[Guest]: And also remember the VC likes to take his project ultimately IPO.
[Guest]: So the VC needs to look at the stock market.
[Guest]: So the stock market says what kind of price to book ratios are attractive and the VC is
[Guest]: guided by the possibility.
[Guest]: For example, Indian healthcare, Indian NBFCs, when these price to book ratios were very
[Guest]: high, we got a surge of private equity funds building projects in these areas.
[Amit Varma]: Right.
[Amit Varma]: And what about more arcane forms of finance like derivatives or like the kind of complex
[Amit Varma]: instruments that led to the 2008 crash?
[Guest]: So far, I've talked about the stock market.
[Guest]: I've emphasized the share price.
[Amit Varma]: Yeah.
[Amit Varma]: Now, there are two more things that need to go into this.
[Guest]: That need to go into this and both of them connect to derivatives.
[Guest]: The first is that, OK, suppose you're this super smart guy and you have an opinion that
[Guest]: the share price of Infosys is going to do well.
[Guest]: You have two choices.
[Guest]: Case one, you will put down 100 rupees and buy the shares of Infosys.
[Guest]: Case two, you will put down 25 rupees and get a position on 100 rupees of Infosys.
[Guest]: OK, so you get a four times leverage.
[Guest]: By only putting 25, you get position of 100.
[Guest]: You're going to prefer the leveraged position.
[Guest]: OK, so for people with too much brains and not much money, you are benefited by having
[Guest]: a leveraged position.
[Guest]: And that is what the derivatives do.
[Guest]: So financial derivatives allow the injection of knowledge and ideas into the process of
[Guest]: price discovery while giving a magnification where people who have more brains and not
[Guest]: enough money are able to participate in the price formation process.
[Guest]: The other side of the derivatives is derivatives trading on physical commodities, whether it
[Guest]: is aluminum or wheat or butter or eggs.
[Guest]: These are very important markets that directly link to the physicals.
[Guest]: So there you directly see that six months from now, eggs are going to be expensive.
[Guest]: So you start getting incentives to build more eggs starting from today.
[Guest]: So the derivatives markets there directly connect into the world of things.
[Amit Varma]: And this is not some abstract thing, you know, people sitting in Wall Street offices do.
[Amit Varma]: This has a very real impact.
[Amit Varma]: And one field in which you've pointed out where it could help, and I had an episode
[Amit Varma]: on this a long, long time ago with Karthik Shashtar on futures markets in agriculture,
[Amit Varma]: where, you know, people just hear the phrase futures market in agriculture and they're
[Amit Varma]: like, what the hell?
[Amit Varma]: You know, we have, you know, the agriculture is in a crisis.
[Amit Varma]: You need to kind of, you know, there are enough problems in the real world.
[Amit Varma]: Why would you gamble with it?
[Amit Varma]: But your point is that a lot of the problems of agriculture and the problems of the common
[Amit Varma]: humble farmer can be sorted out if there are futures markets in agriculture.
[Guest]: And I would tell that in two steps.
[Guest]: So let's start from the world of things.
[Guest]: I think it is useful to see that there are two very big decisions that are made in the
[Guest]: world of food.
[Guest]: Question one, what do I sow?
[Guest]: Question two, what do I store?
[Guest]: Okay, these are the two decisions that are made.
[Guest]: The rest is lotteries.
[Guest]: Okay, so I sow something, but the rain doesn't come or the locusts come.
[Guest]: So there are many other shocks that come along.
[Guest]: But in terms of the decisions made by real people in the world of food, there are two
[Guest]: decisions above all.
[Guest]: Question one, what to sow?
[Guest]: Question two, what to store?
[Guest]: Okay, how do you make those decisions?
[Guest]: For these decisions, you need to have a view about the future.
[Guest]: You need to have a forecast about the future.
[Guest]: What we see in India every now and then is something that comes out of a model that was
[Guest]: written by the economist Paul Samuelson many, many decades ago.
[Guest]: Okay, he calls it the cobweb model.
[Guest]: Okay, that's a story that runs like this, that there's a shortage of tomatoes.
[Guest]: The tomatoes are very expensive.
[Guest]: So lots of farmers rush in and sow tomatoes.
[Guest]: So then you get a great surge.
[Guest]: You get a huge crop of tomatoes.
[Guest]: The price of tomatoes crashes.
[Guest]: And then farmers get very unhappy.
[Guest]: And then they do not sow tomatoes.
[Guest]: And then the cycle starts all over again.
[Guest]: Okay, this is called the cobweb model.
[Guest]: And this is just a cycle of sadness that you're screwed when there's a glut of tomatoes.
[Guest]: You're screwed when there's a shortage of tomatoes.
[Guest]: And this thing just goes on.
[Guest]: How do you break this cycle?
[Guest]: The answer lies in futures trading.
[Guest]: What you need is a futures market to say that, look, six months from now, we believe the
[Guest]: price of eggs will be so much.
[Guest]: Six months from now, we are able to see the prospective outcome of the Kharif harvest
[Guest]: of India today.
[Guest]: Now, if that information was produced by a deep and liquid and active market, then a
[Guest]: sowing decision could be taken by using that public good of the price.
[Guest]: Okay, so as a farmer, I could choose to use that information.
[Guest]: What will be the price of wheat?
[Guest]: What will be the price of rice?
[Guest]: What are all my alternatives?
[Guest]: What are all the future prices?
[Guest]: Come October, when the Kharif harvest comes out, I see all the futures prices.
[Guest]: And based on that, I work out my profits and I choose to sow one.
[Guest]: Okay, that's an incredible information resource.
[Amit Varma]: So your farmer is then guided by the wisdom of crowds.
[Amit Varma]: Whereas otherwise, look, the farmer is gambling anyway.
[Amit Varma]: But here he has far more information if there are good futures markets for him to gamble.
[Guest]: And it's much more than information.
[Guest]: The futures market is not just an opinion.
[Guest]: It's not an opinion poll.
[Guest]: People are putting their money where their mouth is.
[Guest]: So the farmer can choose to actually enter into a contract to sell goods at Dusshera
[Guest]: when the Kharif harvest comes out at that price that is visible in the futures market.
[Guest]: So it's not just an opinion poll.
[Guest]: It's not a hypothetical view of the future.
[Guest]: It is people putting their money where their mouth is.
[Guest]: And then he's guaranteed that, okay, I will get that price.
[Guest]: And he has other risks.
[Guest]: There is a crop failure problem.
[Guest]: There is a locust problem, many other problems.
[Guest]: But at least price risk is something that futures markets excel at doing.
[Guest]: Okay.
[Guest]: And again, the seen and the unseen.
[Guest]: Many people want that proof of truth.
[Guest]: They want to see if the farmer is directly selling goods on the futures market.
[Guest]: You think the futures market is useful.
[Guest]: And I think that's a very incomplete view of the world.
[Guest]: The futures market is useful if it reshapes the structure of information.
[Guest]: If it changes the way people think.
[Guest]: Full stop.
[Guest]: You don't have to have direct participation.
[Guest]: Okay.
[Guest]: And now let me come to part two, which is the storage decision.
[Guest]: So I'm a person who has capital, who has a warehouse.
[Guest]: And I see a price of wheat on the spot market today.
[Guest]: And I see the price of wheat six months into the future on the futures market.
[Guest]: Okay.
[Guest]: And if I see a good gap between the two, then I think to myself,
[Guest]: why don't I buy goods on the spot market and put them in a warehouse?
[Guest]: Okay.
[Guest]: That's a storage decision.
[Guest]: So thousands of storage decisions all around the country
[Guest]: are taken by using the futures price as a reference.
[Guest]: And maybe entering into a contract also to sell through the futures exchange.
[Guest]: But it doesn't need to be.
[Guest]: The futures price is a public good.
[Guest]: And it can reshape the decisions of storage.
[Guest]: And you can see how the sewing decision and the storage decision are both very important.
[Guest]: So if people will not store at the right time, it will generate a glut on the spot market.
[Guest]: So you want this entire machinery that in June, when the Kharif sewing is being done,
[Guest]: you want a good sewing decision.
[Guest]: In October, when the crop comes out, you want a good storage decision.
[Guest]: All these decisions are coordinated by the futures market.
[Amit Varma]: How do agriculture future markets work in other countries?
[Guest]: This is exactly how they work in other countries.
[Amit Varma]: Right.
[Amit Varma]: And what is sort of, is it again a mindset problem for why Indian policymakers don't
[Amit Varma]: let these happen or other interest groups which benefit from these not happening?
[Guest]: So I think we have a lot of baggage, emotional baggage around hoarding of food.
[Guest]: We have a skepticism about trading.
[Guest]: I think we think trading is a bad thing.
[Guest]: So some of these primeval fears keep coming up from time to time.
[Guest]: And we've done a great deal of government interventions
[Guest]: that have limited the ability of the futures market to work.
[Unknown]: We'll take a quick commercial break and we'll come back in a minute.
[Unknown]: We're looking for business development people.
[Unknown]: We're looking for data scientists.
[Unknown]: We're looking for all kinds of roles.
[Unknown]: So if you're interested, send us an email to careers at IndusVox.com
[Unknown]: and we shall get back to you hopefully and get you on board.
[Unknown]: We have a brand new show launching called The Origin of Things.
[Unknown]: It's hosted by one of the co-hosts of Simplified, Deepak Gopalakrishnan,
[Unknown]: better known as Chuck.
[Unknown]: On this show, he'll be focusing on the origin of famous brands.
[Unknown]: Chuck will draw fascinating hints throughout the episode,
[Unknown]: but the brand is revealed only at the very end.
[Unknown]: Will you be able to guess the brand before the reveal?
[Unknown]: Find out by tuning into the first episode launching on Wednesday, 19th of June.
[Unknown]: And Keeping Up With Queer is back with season three.
[Unknown]: The new season has more of everything from stories to debates to discussions.
[Unknown]: The show also has two hosts now, Navin Narona and Farhad Karkaria,
[Unknown]: tuned into the first episode of their reunion.
[Unknown]: On Siders Says, filmmaker Jaideep Sarkar talks to Siders about his early days in showbiz,
[Unknown]: why he enjoys making ad films more than features,
[Unknown]: and his recent launch film for Times of India's Times Out and Proud campaign.
[Unknown]: On Business Start Next, by Bloomberg Quinn,
[Unknown]: Govindraj Yathiraj talks to co-author of the best-selling book Fish, Harry Paul.
[Unknown]: They talk about the importance of a culture of excellence in an organization
[Unknown]: and how it is one of the most integral parts of employee management.
[Unknown]: On Edges & Sludges, our new cricket podcast,
[Unknown]: Ashwin, Varun, and DJ are talking to the cricketeers
[Unknown]: and Atif Nawaz about the ongoing ICC Cricket World Cup.
[Unknown]: On the 99th episode of the Pragati Podcast,
[Unknown]: Pawan is joined by Dr. A.P. Ashwin Kumar from the Center of Learning Futures
[Unknown]: to unpack nationalism, language, and identity.
[Unknown]: Nationalism is also the topic of discussion on episode 39 of Puliyabazi,
[Unknown]: where Pranay and Saurabh are joined by Nitin Pai,
[Unknown]: director of the Takshashila Institution.
[Unknown]: On this episode, they specifically look at the liberal aspects of nationalism.
[Unknown]: On Show Near 1, Sheela Dutty and I are joined by Pranav Kosari,
[Unknown]: founder of Flick and co-founder of Brandy.
[Unknown]: We talk about Flick, the world's smartest button,
[Unknown]: and Pranav's future plans in India.
[Unknown]: And with that, let's continue with your show.
[Amit Varma]: Welcome back to the Scene in the Unseen.
[Amit Varma]: I am chatting with Voldemort Ajay Shah about the evil world of finance,
[Amit Varma]: which sucks hope from us.
[Amit Varma]: So you're making the case that that's quite the opposite.
[Guest]: I think that finance is the invisible knowledge and information system
[Guest]: that runs the market economy.
[Amit Varma]: Now, one interesting point that you made,
[Amit Varma]: which I'd like you to elaborate on,
[Amit Varma]: is that financial markets also set the price of time.
[Amit Varma]: Explain this.
[Guest]: I want to borrow money today that I will repay you next year.
[Guest]: Okay, so that's an interest rate.
[Guest]: That's the price of that delay of one year.
[Guest]: And it could be two years.
[Guest]: It could be five years.
[Guest]: It could be 30 years.
[Guest]: This price is discovered on the bond market.
[Guest]: So there is a giant edifice called the bond market where there are traders.
[Guest]: Some people in the economy want to put money in today and get it out tomorrow.
[Guest]: Some people want to take money today and return it tomorrow.
[Guest]: And all these relationships are sold out on the bond market.
[Guest]: And bottom line, the bond market delivers a number to the economy.
[Guest]: It's an information system that delivers the price of time to the economy.
[Guest]: So whether you're going to take a home loan or you're going to build a bridge,
[Guest]: this is the infrastructure that makes it possible.
[Guest]: So the noisy, tumultuous process of trading and speculation
[Guest]: and bond market, bond futures, all that stuff results in one outcome.
[Guest]: And that outcome is the economy understands the price of time.
[Guest]: And that is, again, not an opinion poll.
[Guest]: It is people who are putting their money where their mouth is.
[Guest]: So when you build a bridge and you are going to borrow for 10 years
[Guest]: or 20 years in order to be able to pay for that bridge up front,
[Guest]: you are the user of this market in time.
[Guest]: So all long dated projects, which involve borrowing,
[Guest]: ultimately feed off the giant public markets in the form of the bond market.
[Amit Varma]: How does the central bank fit into all this?
[Amit Varma]: And if they're setting interest rates and so on?
[Guest]: The central bank controls the short term interest rate.
[Guest]: In a proper market economy,
[Guest]: the central bank should only control the short term interest rate.
[Guest]: So it could be at a one day horizon.
[Guest]: It could be at a one week horizon.
[Guest]: All other rates should be discovered by the market economy.
[Guest]: OK, now this may often not be the world that we live in.
[Guest]: We may often have interventions by the government
[Guest]: in trying to reshape interest rates at different maturities.
[Guest]: But that's part of the larger agenda of the role of the price system in India.
[Guest]: But in a conceptual frame and what we see happening
[Guest]: in mature market economies all over the world
[Guest]: is that the role of monetary policy is to control the short term interest rate.
[Guest]: After that, all other rates are produced by the private sector.
[Amit Varma]: And perhaps this is a subject for a separate episode on its own.
[Amit Varma]: But the thing is that if we know that just allowing markets to function
[Amit Varma]: and set the price of everything is overwhelmingly good for society
[Amit Varma]: and any interference with that is a problem,
[Amit Varma]: then why an exception in the case of the central bank setting short term interest rates?
[Guest]: That is subject for a separate episode.
[Guest]: It turns out that the creation of fiat money intrinsically comes with that one lever.
[Guest]: So in the olden days, we used to say the central bank controls the printing presses.
[Guest]: OK, the moment you decide to build fiat money,
[Guest]: you control that printing press.
[Guest]: We are now in what is called a Wicksellian world
[Guest]: where the printing press is controlled by this decision to set the short rate.
[Guest]: And it turns out that by controlling the short rate,
[Guest]: we're able to exercise a stabilizing force on the business cycle.
[Amit Varma]: So that's why that one rate is special.
[Amit Varma]: Now tell me about, you so far told me how the financial system is a brain of the economy.
[Amit Varma]: Wall Street today determines what Main Street will do tomorrow,
[Amit Varma]: how the information plays out, how the incentives play out.
[Amit Varma]: All of that is great.
[Amit Varma]: Now, whenever I hear, whenever I think of well-functioning markets, I also worry about
[Amit Varma]: a well-meaning state messing it all up.
[Amit Varma]: What are the different ways in which the state can interfere with financial markets?
[Guest]: So I have described a world where the financial markets work well.
[Guest]: OK, by default, financial markets do not necessarily work well.
[Guest]: And there are market failures.
[Guest]: So the classes of market failure that we see in finance is there is an externalities problem.
[Guest]: If there is collapse of a financial firm or a collapse of the financial market system,
[Guest]: it imposes harm upon innocent bystanders.
[Guest]: So there is an externalities problem.
[Guest]: There is an asymmetric information problem in that when you are the user of a bank,
[Guest]: you do not know the soundness of the bank.
[Guest]: You do not know whether the bank will actually live up to its promises.
[Guest]: So it's an unreasonable amount of effort.
[Guest]: It's a bit like a food safety thing that if you and I go buy medicines in a shop,
[Guest]: we can't be expected to test the purity of the medicine.
[Guest]: So like that, there is an asymmetric information problem in the statements that the
[Guest]: financial firms make to their consumers.
[Guest]: So these two problems require a set of regulatory interventions.
[Guest]: OK, and the regulatory interventions in finance basically fall into four categories.
[Guest]: Case one is called consumer protection,
[Guest]: where you're just helping households be protected against unfair trade practices.
[Guest]: Case two is called microprudential regulation,
[Guest]: where we don't allow the financial firms to collapse too often.
[Guest]: Element three is called resolution,
[Guest]: which is a specialized bankruptcy code for financial firms.
[Guest]: And case four is called systemic risk regulation,
[Guest]: where you deal with the possibility of the entire financial system collapsing in a crisis.
[Guest]: These four functions are required to be performed by a government apparatus.
[Guest]: OK, now what goes wrong is all too often such government apparatus
[Guest]: turns into central planning.
[Guest]: OK, and that is indeed where we came from.
[Guest]: Not so long ago, there was not a whiff of a normal financial market system in India,
[Guest]: and all we had was central planning.
[Guest]: And we are constantly torn between these impulses.
[Guest]: So what we in India are at is the early stages of understanding
[Guest]: what is the role of finance in society,
[Guest]: and of reorienting the government machinery away from central planning,
[Guest]: from controlling all the prices of time rather than only being in the short end,
[Guest]: and actually producing these four kinds of responses correctly and efficiently.
[Guest]: And many things go wrong.
[Guest]: So I'm not here to say we are sorted.
[Guest]: I'm not here to say we have a well-functioning financial system in India.
[Guest]: I'm not here to say that our government machinery
[Guest]: for doing these four kinds of things is in place.
[Guest]: But I am here to say that this is the kind of role
[Guest]: that the financial system should be playing in a market economy.
[Guest]: And this is the kind of world that we have to build around us in India.
[Amit Varma]: So one of the dangers you pointed out of an unregulated financial system
[Amit Varma]: and where the government needs to step in is externalities.
[Amit Varma]: And again, you know, this brings me to the example of the 2008 crisis.
[Amit Varma]: And again, your points two and four microprudential and then systemic risk.
[Amit Varma]: And, you know, the US government, of course,
[Amit Varma]: bailed out AIG and Fannie and Freddie and so on in 2008,
[Amit Varma]: allowed Lehman to collapse because there was what they called a systemic risk.
[Amit Varma]: And then pumped in a lot of money and basically bailed a whole lot of them out.
[Amit Varma]: Instead of letting them collapse, as you would expect,
[Amit Varma]: if you, you know, just followed the path of creative destruction,
[Amit Varma]: as you described in a previous episode.
[Amit Varma]: So my question is that, doesn't this lead to moral hazard,
[Amit Varma]: where you're basically privatizing profits, socializing losses,
[Amit Varma]: and therefore any big financial firm or bank can just say that,
[Amit Varma]: hey, I'll do whatever, I'll gamble with my money.
[Amit Varma]: If I win, I keep it. If I lose, the government's bailed me out.
[Guest]: There's no question that there is a threat of moral hazard.
[Guest]: But let me first show the problem in its most extreme form.
[Guest]: And then let's think about what governments have done
[Guest]: and how you would do things differently.
[Guest]: Here's the most extreme form.
[Guest]: I'm a trader working in a bank.
[Guest]: I am given a million dollar bonus if I make a lot of money.
[Guest]: Okay, so the game is well understood to me
[Guest]: that if I make $5 million in profit this year,
[Guest]: I will be given a bonus of $1 million.
[Guest]: What is the incentive of the trader?
[Guest]: The incentive of the trader is to make a Hail Mary pass,
[Guest]: to take very, very, very high risk.
[Guest]: If it works great, I make my organization a lot of money
[Guest]: and I make a million dollar bonus.
[Guest]: If the trade doesn't work out, how bad does it get?
[Guest]: I lose my job. That's not so bad.
[Guest]: Okay, so there's a fundamental incentive
[Guest]: of employees of financial firms to roll the dice.
[Guest]: And that's what microprudential regulation is all about,
[Guest]: to limit the risks taken by the financial firms.
[Guest]: And the moment I have said this,
[Guest]: you will shake your head in unhappiness
[Guest]: that do you really expect officials of some government agency
[Guest]: to understand the richness and complexity of the risks
[Guest]: that are taken by the employees of some private financial firm
[Guest]: and really be able to limit that risk?
[Guest]: So microprudential regulation is hard.
[Guest]: Okay, and this is the battle that we are placed in,
[Guest]: that the basic incentive of private financial firms
[Guest]: is to take a large risk.
[Guest]: Now, there are structures that will do it better than others.
[Guest]: For example, I think it's always better
[Guest]: if you and I as individuals are traders,
[Guest]: because it's my risk.
[Guest]: I've internalized that risk.
[Guest]: I'm not part of a corporation.
[Guest]: This is why I always favor
[Guest]: more direct individual participation in markets.
[Guest]: Because once you get into institutions,
[Guest]: it becomes more complicated.
[Guest]: Then structures like hedge funds are fundamentally better
[Guest]: because the returns are aligned
[Guest]: with the performance that investors get.
[Guest]: And structures like banks are the most dangerous
[Guest]: because there is a balance sheet
[Guest]: and there's a lot of leverage.
[Guest]: And this is where you get the most trouble.
[Guest]: Now, when the government fails
[Guest]: on its microprudential regulation
[Guest]: or when the government fails on its systemic risk reduction,
[Guest]: you can get some big messes.
[Guest]: Exposed, many of us feel very uncomfortable
[Guest]: about bailouts by the government.
[Guest]: Okay, it is the clear use of taxpayer money
[Guest]: to clean up for the bad things done by fat cats
[Guest]: who have been buying yachts and private planes.
[Guest]: Okay, the injustice of this is palpable
[Guest]: and there is no way to gloss over it.
[Guest]: I just want to say to you that from the other side,
[Guest]: nobody feels differently.
[Guest]: So I worked on the cleanup after the UTI crisis in India.
[Guest]: And I've had extensive conversations
[Guest]: with some of the people who worked in the United States
[Guest]: in fixing things after the global crisis.
[Guest]: There's not a single person there
[Guest]: who has the slightest attraction
[Guest]: with bailing out the fat cats.
[Guest]: The point is that the alternative was worse.
[Guest]: So I am persuaded that if the AIG
[Guest]: and other bailouts had not happened in the United States,
[Guest]: at the cost of a lot of money to the taxpayer in the short run,
[Guest]: the alternative would have been worse.
[Guest]: And in the United States,
[Guest]: a lot of that money eventually came back.
[Guest]: So in India's case also,
[Guest]: the public money that went into solving the UTI problem,
[Guest]: it eventually came back with interest.
[Guest]: So the government made good
[Guest]: and in fact made a profit on the UTI rescue.
[Guest]: So it's not that obvious exposed
[Guest]: that a lot of money was put in.
[Guest]: But the point is clear in my mind,
[Guest]: on the date when these decisions were taken,
[Guest]: that the alternative was worse.
[Guest]: That if you just let UTI flame out
[Guest]: without any public intervention,
[Guest]: which is closer to the sorts of things
[Guest]: that a more hot-headed person,
[Guest]: namely yours truly,
[Guest]: used to think in those days.
[Guest]: Not doing anything was worse
[Guest]: than doing something using public money.
[Guest]: So I'm less religious about these matters today.
[Guest]: I think we should corely look at the situation
[Guest]: and we should do things that are wise and sensible,
[Guest]: even when it appears horrible.
[Guest]: And there will always be the rhetoric
[Guest]: that the fat cats have their yachts
[Guest]: and you're using precious taxpayer money
[Guest]: to cover up for their mistakes.
[Guest]: There is no running away from that rhetoric
[Guest]: and we have to think sensibly despite that.
[Amit Varma]: I mean, I look at the sort of the marketplace of things
[Amit Varma]: as it were.
[Amit Varma]: And the whole idea is that companies
[Amit Varma]: which make mistakes,
[Amit Varma]: for example, companies which set bad incentives
[Amit Varma]: for their employees,
[Amit Varma]: like the financial firm as an analogy,
[Amit Varma]: which might set a bad incentive
[Amit Varma]: for the trader to get his million dollar bonus.
[Amit Varma]: When companies in the marketplace of things
[Amit Varma]: make mistakes like that,
[Amit Varma]: they suffer for it in the balance sheet.
[Amit Varma]: They shut down, they're allowed to shut down.
[Amit Varma]: And that's a lesson for everybody.
[Amit Varma]: And that's how good practices creep into the thing.
[Amit Varma]: But your point is that there is so much at stake
[Amit Varma]: in this bigger world of finance
[Amit Varma]: that sometimes you have to bail these guys out.
[Amit Varma]: And the problem of moral hazard,
[Amit Varma]: therefore, is ever present.
[Amit Varma]: And therefore, this could just be a cycle.
[Guest]: It could happen again.
[Guest]: Yes, it will happen again.
[Guest]: It will assuredly happen again.
[Guest]: First, I want to say that,
[Guest]: please do not underestimate the damage
[Guest]: that was caused to the shareholders of AIG,
[Guest]: to the top managers of AIG,
[Guest]: they were wiped out.
[Guest]: Okay, so it's not as if
[Guest]: they are directly getting money.
[Guest]: The more complex thing is
[Guest]: they made a bonus the previous year.
[Guest]: Okay, so for the previous 10 years,
[Guest]: they had taken home fabulous bonuses.
[Guest]: They were buying islands in the Bahamas.
[Amit Varma]: And nobody can change that.
[Amit Varma]: Privatized profits,
[Amit Varma]: and they knew the losses would be socialized.
[Guest]: So when AIG got public money,
[Guest]: the existing shareholders were wiped out,
[Guest]: much like a bankruptcy process.
[Guest]: Sure.
[Guest]: Now, the reason why the world of things
[Guest]: is different from the world of finance
[Guest]: is exactly where we started.
[Guest]: That finance is the brain of the economy.
[Guest]: So the amount of damage that you can do
[Guest]: by destroying the financial firms is extreme.
[Guest]: So I said that
[Guest]: if there was a giant earthquake in Bombay
[Guest]: and everything was destroyed,
[Guest]: where would you start?
[Guest]: You would start by rebuilding the financial sector.
[Guest]: Now, let me flip this around.
[Guest]: Let me leave the rest of Bombay intact.
[Guest]: And let me destroy all the financial firms.
[Guest]: Let me destroy the financial markets.
[Guest]: That would be a catastrophe.
[Guest]: The world of things would not work
[Guest]: if the world of finance was not there.
[Guest]: So because finance is so important,
[Guest]: a disruption of the financial system
[Guest]: is disproportionately important,
[Guest]: and it does damage.
[Guest]: So there is a really bad problem
[Guest]: in what you're describing,
[Guest]: and you are absolutely correct to highlight it.
[Guest]: It's a tough thing that we will need to confront.
[Guest]: So my good word will be,
[Guest]: can we do better on microprudential regulation?
[Guest]: Can we do better on systemic risk management?
[Guest]: So that these things don't happen to us.
[Guest]: And I think there's a lot of headroom
[Guest]: for us in India to do these things.
[Guest]: That said, yes, I feel pretty certain
[Guest]: that in the next 20 years,
[Guest]: we will have one more mess.
[Amit Varma]: Why do you say that?
[Guest]: Because it is in the nature of finance
[Guest]: for these things to happen.
[Guest]: Let me say this in a somewhat more sophisticated way.
[Guest]: I said that there is a trader in a financial firm
[Guest]: and the boss of the trader
[Guest]: or the regulator of the bank
[Guest]: is trying to control the risk
[Guest]: that this guy is taking.
[Guest]: But that trader is sitting at the desk
[Guest]: and thinking day and night.
[Guest]: The trader will always find
[Guest]: that complicated oddball position
[Guest]: that can be taken,
[Guest]: where the risk as calculated
[Guest]: by his boss or his regulator will be wrong.
[Guest]: So the world is a complicated place.
[Guest]: No models are perfect.
[Guest]: Every attempt by a regulator or by a management
[Guest]: to measure and control the risk
[Guest]: that is being taken by the decision makers.
[Guest]: These attempts will always be crude.
[Guest]: And the moment you put in a system,
[Guest]: the moment you put in a risk system,
[Guest]: there are very, very smart people
[Guest]: who are trying to find the chinks
[Guest]: of that risk system.
[Guest]: And the world will change
[Guest]: and there will be opportunities
[Guest]: to load up on risk in ways
[Guest]: that your risk model does not quite see.
[Guest]: And then the cycle will start all over again.
[Guest]: So it's just in the nature of the world
[Guest]: that the world will change.
[Guest]: The class of instruments will change.
[Guest]: Every risk system is limited.
[Guest]: We will have a mess
[Guest]: and then we'll clean up
[Guest]: and we'll start over.
[Amit Varma]: So now you're someone who's known
[Amit Varma]: the Indian financial system intimately,
[Amit Varma]: both as part of the establishment
[Amit Varma]: and as a reformer
[Amit Varma]: and perhaps as a player.
[Amit Varma]: So in your view, very broadly,
[Amit Varma]: what is wrong with the Indian financial system today?
[Guest]: In India, we started at a legacy
[Guest]: of a 1934 RBI Act.
[Guest]: When the British created that act
[Guest]: in a remarkable act of honesty,
[Guest]: in the first two sentences of the law,
[Guest]: they said that as a temporary measure,
[Guest]: we create the Reserve Bank of India.
[Guest]: Okay, so this is not a structure
[Guest]: that was intended to be a thorough,
[Guest]: well thought out thing.
[Guest]: And it has taken many, many years.
[Guest]: So we started with that temporary structure
[Guest]: in the years of Indian socialism.
[Guest]: We built an entire financial system
[Guest]: around central planning.
[Guest]: So the idea was that the planning commission
[Guest]: would decide there needs to be a steel mill
[Guest]: and the financial system will serve up
[Guest]: the money required to build that steel mill.
[Guest]: That's our legacy.
[Guest]: That's where we started.
[Guest]: We started getting some new organizations
[Guest]: like SEBI,
[Guest]: but in the 90s,
[Guest]: when the DNA of the organization was laid,
[Guest]: we did not know a whole lot
[Guest]: about how to create the processes
[Guest]: and the checks and balances
[Guest]: of these organizations.
[Guest]: I think only in the last five, 10 years,
[Guest]: we've developed a good understanding
[Guest]: about what is to be done.
[Guest]: I check pointed the four things to you.
[Guest]: We need to do consumer protection,
[Guest]: microprudential regulation,
[Guest]: resolution and systemic risk.
[Guest]: This clarity is only last five, 10 years.
[Guest]: And we also have a lot of clarity
[Guest]: on how a regulator should work,
[Guest]: how to create checks and balances,
[Guest]: how to prevent arbitrary power,
[Guest]: how to prevent arbitrary persecution
[Guest]: by a regulator.
[Guest]: These are things that we've only started understanding
[Guest]: in the last five, 10 years.
[Guest]: So I think only now we're coming to the point
[Guest]: where we have a reasonable understanding
[Guest]: of what is the task of financial regulation
[Guest]: and what is the kind of organizational design
[Guest]: and law and public administration
[Guest]: that will take us towards state capability,
[Guest]: state capacity in doing this kind of work.
[Guest]: And in the meantime,
[Guest]: there are these incumbents in the landscape.
[Guest]: There are public sector firms in the landscape.
[Guest]: So there will be resistance.
[Guest]: So I see a long, slow journey
[Guest]: of building the state capability
[Guest]: to do the right things
[Guest]: and not do the central planning.
[Amit Varma]: What are the big specific reforms
[Amit Varma]: you'd carry out
[Amit Varma]: if you were in charge of the finance ministry tomorrow?
[Guest]: I was a bit player in a very important project
[Guest]: that was begun in 2011.
[Guest]: It is called the Financial Sector
[Guest]: Legislative Reforms Commission.
[Guest]: And this blueprint was set up there.
[Guest]: This commission was led by Justice Shri Krishna.
[Guest]: And the report was submitted in 2013
[Guest]: and the work was completed in 2015.
[Guest]: It's a single clean law.
[Guest]: It's called the Indian Financial Code.
[Guest]: And in my mind,
[Guest]: that's a very important reform to enact this law.
[Guest]: It replaces 61 existing laws.
[Guest]: And then there would be several years of work
[Guest]: on building the agency architecture
[Guest]: that would be able to enforce this law.
[Amit Varma]: Is it online somewhere
[Amit Varma]: where I can link it from episode page?
[Amit Varma]: Great, I'll do that.
[Amit Varma]: Ajay, thanks so much for coming on the show.
[Amit Varma]: I learned a lot talking to you.
[Guest]: My pleasure.
[Guest]: If you enjoyed listening to this episode,
[Amit Varma]: you can follow Ajay on Twitter at Ajay underscore Shah.
[Amit Varma]: That's at Ajay underscore Shah.
[Amit Varma]: You can follow me at Amit Verma, A-M-I-T-V-A-R-M-A.
[Amit Varma]: You can browse past episodes at the scene and the unseen
[Amit Varma]: at sceneunseen.in, thinkpragati.com and ibmpodcast.com.
[Amit Varma]: The scene and the unseen is supported
[Amit Varma]: by the Takshashila Institution,
[Amit Varma]: an independent center for research and education
[Amit Varma]: in public policy.
[Amit Varma]: Takshashila Institution offers 12-week courses
[Amit Varma]: in public policy, technology policy,
[Amit Varma]: and strategic strategy.
[Amit Varma]: For both full-time students and working professionals,
[Unknown]: visit takshashila.org.in for more details.
[Unknown]: And have a lot to offer for your portfolio.
[Unknown]: New episodes out every Tuesday on the IBM Podcast app
[Unknown]: or any other app where you get your podcasts from.
[Unknown]: Janice, what do you think couples did before TV was invented?
[Unknown]: I don't know, go for walks on the beach, long drives,
[Unknown]: fancy dinners, have more sex maybe.
[Unknown]: But what did we do when we decided to move in together?
[Unknown]: We debated between the Chromecast and the Fire Stick.
[Unknown]: We gave up on sleeping early so we could stay up
[Unknown]: watching true crime shows.
[Unknown]: We got ourselves three cat babies.
[Unknown]: And basically became the cutest couch potatoes around.
[Unknown]: Okay then.
[Unknown]: In case you guys still haven't got it,
[Unknown]: we are a TV-crazy, Netflix-loving,
[Unknown]: binge-watching Mr. and Mrs.
[Unknown]: I'm Anirudh Kuha.
[Unknown]: I'm Janice Iquera.
[Unknown]: And if like us, you snort TV for breakfast, lunch, and dinner,
[Unknown]: this is the podcast for you.
[Unknown]: Tune in every Thursday on the IVM Podcast app
[Unknown]: or wherever it is that you get your podcasts from.
[Unknown]: This is Mr. and Mrs. Binge-Watch.